Methods that are employed by authoritarian. It is not a worry of the falling sky. It is upon us way before we realize.

You might also be aware of these already. There are probably many more but at least this can be a reminder or basic checklist.

Basically you can expect maliciousness from anyone, for everyone could be corrupted. But some traditionally highly respected professions might worth mentioning, e.g. (fake or real): teachers, doctors, social workers, government staff, police, lawyers, judges, last but not least, reporters.

Lastly, instead of thinking people won't be so moralless, you better expect them to feel professional and powerful.


Monopolizing power
  1. Weapon, firearms
(self explained)
  2. Law and Rights
(ever experienced crime but found records such as CCTV record inaccessible?)
  3. Media
(This one is huge, it is not just fake information, it is not even just selected information for you. Sometimes it just need to show up on your screen.
Also, neutralize criticism with “different viewing points” and rewrite history posteriorly.)
  4. Surveillance
(Your digital devices, social platforms, people that reasonably appear in your daily life and CCTV. And then there are hidden camera which already gross, but what if some things of military grade are also used? Yes, against you and I, the common people.
Tactics and narratives are also formed with the help of the constant surveillance.)
  5. Facilities
(Medical facilities, entertainment, education, you name it.)
  6. Social support
(Both emotional and material.)
  7. Life necessities
(import and export restriction. “Instruct” or commanding merchants.)

Social Engineering
  1. Direct
(personal data, not just for direct attacks but also to set up further data extraction and, literally, to set you up.)
  2. Indirect
(fake: friendship, romance (love), sex (lust), family and others, e.g.: kids, ananimal
Repeat by changing people (I am serious) when fail. “You cannot hate the whole world because the last person was bad, can you?”)
  3. Status: career, wealth and power
(opportunity and convenience)
  4. Social pressure
(e.g.: peer sanctioning and conformity)

Psychological Warfare (mostly self explained)
  1. Infiltrating the mass
    1a. Sway the direction or decision
    1b. Stir up discord
    1c. Spread fears
    1d. Wear down spirit and trust with fake information
  2. Dominating the media
    2a. Isolate people from different places
    2b. Induce hesitation
    (by controlling narrative of who is lawful and/or morally correct)
    2c. Crushing faith of prospective support

Double standard
  1. Moral
  2. Law
(not the subconscious but the calculated ones. Intentionally support and advocate but consider one self above some norms)

Exploit good natures (self explained)
  1. Exploit kindness
  2. Exploit the senses of honour and duty
  3. Exploit bonds between people
