(Feel bad after writing this. Feel bad writing daily too. Still being harassed, with the knowledge of my online/offline activities too.)

I am sure I won't be able to mention everything. Not even close. Talking about it makes me feel being petty myself. But when the pettiness comes from the so-called management (often time you don't really know what they manage, manage to abuse power maybe) of all kinds of entity, it is just something too huge to ignore. Huge pettiness, what am I even talking about.

1. Always want to claim the glory
Alright, there is nothing glorious, they just want to claim everything that is not shit. You know something because of them, you can do somehing because of them, everything is because of them. Can you imagine that people claim that you know how to use obscene language only because you learned from them? Let's first set aside why you had to know not how to use obscene language (what were they thinking?). Even if that's the case, what's the meaning of claiming that? And no, it is not to say it in an interesting way but to say it in your absence. This is not just petty. How pathetic one has to be to have the necessity to make this claim? Alright, maybe I was wrong. They want to claim everything, even shit.

2. Don't really sow, yet want to reap
An analogy about student I have heard from a teacher is that, "It is like we dug a well and then someone else comes to drink the water." It was talking about a student who wanted to go study overseas unless I had mistaken. It is absolutely a beautiful thing when people pay back to where they get started up. However, when it is calculated, the payback is expected, demanded, then it is an entirely different matter. And it comes from teachers? Considering the students their properties? Wells from which the education companies are entitled to drink? Utterly disgusting.
Wait, why are we talking about teachers or school staff? Ain't we talking about management? Because I went back to school in recent years. And hell yeah, as far as I can see schools are just education companies now, and students are either personels or products that are supposed to be owned and managed.
To make it worse, there are teachers who considered they job done by reading the materials. Anything else is extra that the students should be thankful for. Well, again it could be true. But why expect respect or pay back if you are just doing your paid job?

3. Prove that they are doing their job with the argument that they could do worse
What a manager should do? To set things in order so that the operation runs smoothly I would suggest. But most of the time what we see is... nothing. Just stating the obvious, demanding more and more without providing input. Squeezing from people as much as they could, without the thankfulness they would have expected when it is them doing anything, too. When questioned? Abuse power and make people miserable to prove that things could be worse if not for their non-input.

4. Make others miserable in attempt to look good, by abusing power no less
5. Praise one another to create an illusion of competent
6. Create dependency to create hierachy
Why can't these "management" people do some real shits so that they naturally look good, competent and be relied on?

7. Control freak
7a. The ordinary ones that want to control everything at work.
7b. The crazy ones that want to have you forever under their control.
